Cereal Killer, Phantom Phreak, Crash Override...if 
these handles appear on your computer screen, 
you're beyond saving -- consider yourself hacked.

Zero Cool -- real name Dade Murphy -- is a legend 
among his peers.  In 1988, he single-handedly 
crashed 1,507 computers on Wall Street, creating 
worldwide financial chaos.  Eleven years old, 
Dade Murphy had a record with the F.B.I. -- 
forbidden to finger the keys of so much as a 
touchtone phone until his 18th birthday, exiled 
from cyberspace.  It's been seven years without 
a byte...and he's hungry.

Kate Libby, handle Acid Burn, has a souped-up 
laptop that can do 0 to 60 on the infobahn in a 
nanosecond.  When Zero Cool collides with Acid 
Burn, the battle of the sexes goes into hard drive.

But all bets are off when they must pool their 
resources to battle The Plague, a master hacker 
employed by a corporate giant and using his 
considerable talents to worm his way into 
millions.Worse yet, he has hidden his own 
scheme by framing Dade, Kate and their friends 
in a diabolical industrial conspiracy.  The young 
band of renegade hackers sets out to recruit 
the best of the cybernet underground to clear 
their names.

A fast-paced cyberpunk thriller, "HACKERS" 
delivers a wake-up call to today's computer 
generation concerning the enormous power at 
their fingertips.  Director Iain Softley, who 
explored the roots of the '60s rock 'n' roll 
counterculture in "Backbeat," now takes us 
behind the screens of the '90s computer 
subculture.  Softley also served as the film's
executive producer.

"HACKERS" is produced by Michael Peyser 
("RuthlessPeople," "Desperately Seeking Susan") 
and Ralph Winter ("Star Trek IV: The Voyage 
Home," "Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country") 
and co-produced by Janet Graham ("Camp 
Nowhere").  The screenplay is the first from 
writer Rafael Moreu.

The group of elite hackers is played by an 
ensemble of talented young actors, who are 
relative newcomers to the screen.  English 
actor Jonny Lee Miller and Angelina Jolie head 
the cast as Dade Murphy and Kate Libby.  
Portraying their fellow computer explorers 
are Jesse Bradford ("King of theHill," 
"Presumed Innocent"), Matthew Lillard ("Mad 
Love," "Serial Mom"), Laurence Mason ("The 
Crow," "True Romance") and Renoly Santiago
("Dangerous Minds").

Taking up the opposition are Fisher Stevens 
("Short Circuit," "Reversal of Fortune"), Wendell 
Pierce ("Manhattan Murder Mystery," "It Could 
Happen to You"), outrageous illusionist Penn 
Jillette (of Penn & Teller), and Academy Award
nominee Lorraine Bracco ("GoodFellas," 
"Someone to Watch Over Me").

Alberta Watson ("Spanking the Monkey") also 
appears as Dade's dedicated, but bewildered 
mother,and Ethan Browne, son of rocker Jackson 
Browne, plays Kate's soon-to-be-ex-boyfriend.

"HACKERS" was filmed on location in London and 
New York City, and Iain Softley collaborated with 
an outstanding creative team from both sides of 
the Atlantic to accomplish "HACKERS"' 
simultaneously contemporary and futuristic 
milieu.  They include: director of photography 
Andrzej Sekula ("Pulp Fiction"); production 
designer John Beard ("The Last Temptation of 
Christ"); editors Christopher Blunden 
("The Adventures of Baron Munchausen") and 
Martin Walsh ("Backbeat"); Roger Burton, the 
legendary clothing collector, who makes his 
feature film debut as a costume designer; and 
composer Simon Boswell ("Lord of Illusions").

Prominent European graphic designer Neville 
Brody contributed the unique computer screen 
art and the graphics that illustrate hackers' 
individual handles. Complimenting his work 
was that of visual effects supervisor Peter 
Chiang ("Batman"), who collaborated with Iain 
Softley to allow us into the mind's eye of these 
elite computer geniuses who see the world 
through its interconnecting circuits.
