The revolution isn't coming.  It's already here.

While it is true that every generation can claim its 
own revolution -- some more revolutionary than 
others -- none previous have had the far-reaching 
effects and reverberations as that of the computer 
generation of the '90s.  Admittedly, computers 
aren't exactly a new phenomenon, but no other 
generation has grown up with them in their 
homes, in their schools and, most importantly, 
in their playrooms.  In addition, never before has 
so much computing power been packed into such 
inexpensive machinery, allowing for an explosion 
of accessibility to every social and economic 
level, and making the computer an instrument of 
escape, expression and empowerment.

The last decade has seen the advent of the 
long-awaited information highway -- an 
exponential increase of online and internet 
servicesthat has made computer exploration 
virtually limitless...if you know the path.

Those who not only know the path, but can create 
new ones to gain access to even the most 
restricted information have added a new word 
to our lexicon -- HACKERS.

"We're in a new era," director Iain Softley 
emphasizes.  "This is uncharted territory, and I 
think hackers see themselves as modern-day 
explorers."

Screenwriter Rafael Moreu first encountered 
hacking during his freshman year in college.  
What instantly impressed him was the single-
minded intensity of the participants, which 
was similar to that of dedicated artists, 
musicians or athletes.  "I was immediately 
intrigued," Moreu states.  "When people become 
so obsessed by a single activity, there has to 
be a story, and I wanted to investigate further."

He later made contact with some of the country's 
top hackers, many of whom were still in their 
teens and already under surveillance by the 
authorities.  As he hung out with them and 
listened to their stories, he started to detect 
a political agenda thatcould easily be compared 
to the rebellion of the Sixties.  He realized that 
here was a counterculture revolution; kids as 
young as 14 were fighting for freedom of 
access to information.

"These kids were beginning to realize that they'd 
been handed the keys to the kingdom," Moreu 
offers, "and now had to deal with the 
responsibilities that came with it."

Wanting to tell their story, Moreu reveals, "I 
wrote my own 'screenplay hack' -- a kind of 
Trojan Horse program, where I could present 
these more serious issues in a script that also 
delivers the hackers' inherent sense of anarchic 
humor."

Co-producer Janet Graham recalls that Moreu's 
screenplay captured the imagination of the 
producers, who saw the potential of this 
extremely timely theme.

"We recognized that hacking has become a 
cultural phenomenon," Graham says.  "Here are 
these very bright kids, who are multi-ethnic, 
multi-cultural and from every strata.  They are 
neither nerds nor terrorists, but they have 
become proficient in something with 
ramifications most of us have only begun to 
comprehend.  It raises a lot of questions 
about legality and morality."

Iain Softley, who had already proven his ability to 
capture the origins of a young counterculture with 
the critically acclaimed "Backbeat," came on 
board to helm the film.  The director was immediately attracted to the opportunity to 
explore a growing sub-culture that promises 
to have an equal or even greater impact on the 
world.

Softley notes, "It wasn't as much the computers 
as the idea that here was a phenomenon that 
today's generation has latched onto in the way 
that their predecessors latched onto rock 'n' 
roll.  I think their agenda is simply to have fun, 
to do what they want to do and not allow 
anybody to tell them what not to do."

In fact, recent news stories corroborate that, from 
the government on down, those in authority are 
having a difficult time figuring out what exactly it 
is that hackers can and cannot do.  Softley notes, 
"Laws are being passed that are trying to define a 
world that's changing so quickly, it's difficult to 
keep up.  What is legal and what is illegal?  Who 
is the criminal?

"'HACKERS' presents a number of questions that 
are begging to be asked, let alone answered," 
Softley remarks.  "The irony is that the biggest 
crime -- one that could unravel the whole of 
modern society -- could conceivably be 
perpetrated by a kid in his bedroom with some 
fairly basic equipment.  It's funny, but there's 
an inescapably serious side to it."

In casting the eclectic band of elite hackers, 
Softley and casting director Dianne Crittenden 
screened over 1,000 actors from across the 
United States.  In England, their efforts were 
supported by London casting director Michelle 
Guish ("Four Weddings and a Funeral").  The 
result is an ensemble of young actors who are 
not only talented, but reflect the diversity of 
the computer generation they represent.  
Newcomers Jonny Lee Miller and Angelina Jolie 
lead the group as Dade and Kate, who first 
square off before joining forces to defeat a 
common enemy.

Though he is English, Miller has a tremendous 
ear for dialects and worked with a coach to 
mask his accent perfectly.  "Dade is a bit cocky 
and arrogant," he describes his character.  
"From the moment he and Kate meet, there's a 
lot of double meaning in their talk; they have a 
flirtation, but it'sfueled by a complete dislike 
for each other.  But Dade can't deny that he is 
fascinated by Kate, and when they find their 
common ground it becomes the playing field on 
which they can communicate their feelings for 
one another."

Angelina Jolie adds, "Kate has to respect Dade, 
and that adds to her attraction to him."  Jolie 
soon learned that, as Kate, she was playing a 
true minority in the world of computers.  "I 
talked to a lot of male hackers who told me 
that, even though it's changing, very few 
hackers are women, so it's difficult for them 
to fit in.  I think that's why Kate is so strong-
willed and disciplined: she knows she's
good, but she feels she has to be tough to be 
accepted as an equal."

Rounding out the group of young, street-smart 
computer whizzes are: Jesse Bradford as Joey, 
the wannabe hacker who's in desperate search 
of a handle; Matthew Lillard as Cereal Killer, 
who Lillard describes as "the Renaissance Man 
of the group"; Laurence Mason as Lord Nikon, 
whose photographic memory gives him what 
Mason calls "a living computer in his brain"; 
and Renoly Santiago as Phantom Phreak, the 
telephone company's worst nightmare.

Providing a formidable foe to the elite hackers is 
Fisher Stevens as The Plague, a master hacker in 
his own right who has sold out for corporate 
greed. "A hacker's true quest is not materialistic; 
they're after knowledge and information," 
Stevens explains."My character, Eugene, The 
Plague, has gone beyond that.  He thinks he's 
gone as far as he can go, so he might as well 
get paid for it.  He sees Dade as an obstacle, 
but he also understands him...he once was him. 
But now, he thinks he can destroy this kid; 
Dade ain't nothing compared to The Plague."

Academy Award nominee Lorraine Bracco stars 
as Margo, The Plague's accomplice, with whom 
the less computer-initiated are sure to identify.  
Though her executive post at Ellingson Mineral 
Corporation gives Plague the access he needs 
for their scheme, it is also her lack of computer 
savvy that opens the door for the hackers to 
jeopardize their plot.

"I wanted to do the role because I had met Iain 
and had seen 'Backbeat,' which I thought was 
brilliant," Bracco says.  "It was a different kind 
of role for me; I don't usually get to play the 
villainess, so this was fun."

The younger cast engaged in a two-part training 
program to achieve the skills necessary for their 
roles: one part treacherous, the other tedious.  
The filmmakers felt it was important that they 
be as dexterous with a computer keyboard as 
their characters would be, so each of them was 
enrolled in a crash-course of typing and computer 
classes, requiring hours of repetitive practice.  
Several scenes also called for the kids to zip 
through the streets of New York on rollerblades.  
Their training on rollerblades was, unfortunately, 
also something of a crash course, though they 
all came out none the worse for wear.

One of the most visually exciting aspects of 
"HACKERS" is the colorfully eclectic wardrobe of 
the title characters.  In an inspired coup, the 
filmmakers secured legendary clothing collector 
Roger Burton as the film's costume designer.  
Remarkably, though Burton's knowledge of 
fashion has proven invaluable on such films 
as Julian Temple's "Absolute Beginners" and 
Franc Roddam's "Quadrophenia," "HACKERS" 
marked his first project as a costume 
designer.

Working from the character descriptions in the 
original script, Burton pre-conceived a lot of 
their look long before casting had been 
completed.  His costumes perfectly -- and 
sometimes humorously -- delineated the 
uniquely individual personalities and talents 
of the young hackers.

Producer Janet Graham notes, "The costumes 
reflected a 'found object' approach, with layers 
of accessories creating a heightened street look."

"None of the kids are particularly rich," Burton 
adds, "so it made sense that they would shop in 
thrift shops and such to customize their own 
look." With that in mind, the costumes for 
"HACKERS" became a combination of original 
designs and pieces purchased from second 
hand stores, thrift shops and even street 
vendors.  This posed a particular problem for 
the production.  "On a film set, you need 
doubles, or even triples of costumes in case 
one is damaged or destroyed before you are 
finished with it," says Graham.  "However, 
thrift shops and street vendors rarely carry 
two or three of any item.  In some cases, we 
had to create duplicates...sometimes we 
just risked it."

On the other hand, several of the costumes were 
designed and created specifically for the film.  
Kate's wardrobe, for example, was very stylized 
and, while it was close-fitting to show off her 
body, it remained relatively androgynous.  As the 
only girl in an extremely male-dominated arena, 
Burton and Softley agreed that she would 
downplay her femininity to gain acceptance.  
However, as she becomes more attracted to 
Dade, we see her style change, culminating in 
the beautiful, fitted kimono dress she wears 
on their first official date.  Although, proving 
that she hasn't completely capitulated, she 
offsets it with heavy boots.

In creating Dade's costumes, Burton went for 
a look he describes as, "post-cyberpunk, 
apocalyptic ... almost paramilitary."  This 
veneer, together with Jonny Lee Miller's own 
dynamic performance, combined to give Dade 
a rebellious edge and an undercurrent of 
defiance.

Graham adds, "Their toys are a distinct part 
of their wardrobe.  They have beepers, laptops, 
etc.  The waykids once personalized guitars, 
these kids personalize their computers and 
the way they carry them around."  Her point is 
emphasized by the outlandish backpacks and 
bags that Kate wears to stash her laptop.

To accessorize the costumes, Burton 
collaborated extensively with production 
designer John Beard, set decorator Joanne 
Woollard and the props department.  Beard 
carried the "found object" theme from the 
costumes through to his motifs for the 
hackers' raucous hangouts, Robot's Revolt 
and Cyberdelia.

Part nightclub, part clubhouse, Cyberdelia is not 
unlike many of the cyberclubs discovered by the 
filmmakers in their research for the film.  Iain 
Softley wanted it to be a multi-levelled cacophony 
of sights and sounds where the hackers could
come to exchange information, check out the 
latest equipment and match their skills on 
state-of-the-art computer games.

To accomplish the multi-levelled concept, 
Cyberdelia was built from scratch in an 
abandoned indoor swimming pool on the 
outskirts of London, with the center of the 
club in the depths of what was the pool.  
Producer Ralph Winter notes, "We never knew 
why, but the pool was designated an historic 
landmark, so great care had to be taken not
to damage anything and to return it to its 
original state."

Cyberdelia is also the place where Dade and 
Kate first officially square off on a computer 
game called Wipe Out.  The game was created 
by Sony Playstations who designed sequences 
specifically for "HACKERS."

"HACKERS" became the first feature film to shoot 
inside the Lloyd's of London office building.  The 
interior became the headquarters of Ellingson 
Mineral Corporation where the Plague and Margo 
work...and steal.  Softley chose the location 
because of its interconnecting, see-through 
escalators that created an allusion to the inside 
of a computer.

Throughout the film, the director sought to blur 
the lines between reality and fantasy, to 
intermingle the worlds inside and outside of the 
computer.  "I wanted to show how hackers have 
a sort of second sight, an X-ray view of the 
world," Softley explains.

"It's like walking down a street with an architect 
who knows how everything was built," Rafael 
Moreu adds.  "Elite hackers see the world just 
under the skin, all computer systems and 
link-ups."

In "HACKERS," the image of Dade's mind's eye 
is conveyed in an early scene when his plane 
flies into Manhattan.  As he looks down at the 
buildings, they seem to transform into a giant 
computer circuit board, with information 
flashing from one building to the next.  Later 
in the film, the inside labyrinth of Ellingson 
Mineral's giant computer takes on the 
appearance of towering buildings.

"We made the city look like a computer and the 
main computer look like a city," Softley says.  
"In the movie, the parallel world of computers 
appears just as real as the everyday world.  The 
real and the imaginary are superimposed on one 
another.  This visual treatment gave me the 
opportunity to create a fantastic, slightly 
hallucinogenic feel to the story.  As Dade and 
the others begin to hack, we travel with them 
through an information vortex, composed of a 
rapid succession of images into an infinite 
inner space."

Softley worked with visual effects supervisor 
Peter Chiang to achieve his vision of a melding 
finite and cyber-world.  Interestingly, in a film 
about computers, almost all of the special 
effects were achieved without computer 
animation.  Softley explains, "We used the more 
conventional methods of motion control, 
animation, models and rotoscoping to create 
a real three-dimensional world, because, in my 
opinion, computer graphics alone can 
sometimes lend a more flat, sterile image."

"HACKERS"' all-too-real exteriors were 
accomplished on location in New York City, 
utilizing such recognizable locations as Times 
Square, Central Park, The World Trade Center, 
Grand Central Station, and the top of the Empire 
State Building.  For one harrowing rollerblade 
chase sequence, Park Avenue had to be closed to 
traffic.  Matthew Lillard recalls that the fact 
that the inconvenience was caused by a film 
company didn't impress Manhattan's commuters.  "When you're on location in some places, people 
come around and say, 'Oh my God, they're 
making a movie.'  In New York, they don't care.  
It's like, 'Get out of the way; I'm late for
a train!'"

The High School scenes were befittingly shot 
at Stuyvesant High School, which doubled in the 
film for Stanton High School.  Located on the 
Hudson River in the financial district, Stuyvesant 
is a brand new, multi-million dollar facility, 
which is one of the most state-of-the-art 
education centers in the country.

The school, as it turned out, was an even more 
appropriate choice than the filmmakers could 
have imagined.  A few months after "HACKERS" 
wrapped filming at the school, several of 
Stuyvesant's students were busted by the F.B.I.
...for hacking.

Softley concludes, "In many ways, the backdrop, 
the thing that binds these characters together, 
isn't just the hacking; it's the shared interest 
in cyberculture as a whole.  One of the things I 
tried to bring to the movie was the sense that 
here was a colorful, passionate, sexy, energetic, 
fast-paced, adrenaline-driven world that 
audiences would want to visit for a while."
