IAIN SOFTLEY (Director/Executive Producer) made
his feature film directorial debut on the acclaimed 
drama "BackBeat."  Softley also wrote the script, 
which chronicled the earliest days of the Beatles
and the poignant romance of German photographer
Astrid Kirchherr with the "fifth" Beatle, Stuart
Sutcliffe.  The film starred Sheryl Lee, Stephen 
Dorff and Ian Hart and opened to worldwide 
critical praise in 1994.

In his native England, Softley has earned a
reputation as a specialist in the areas of the arts, 
music documentaries and music videos.  He has 
worked with a variety of musicians, including: The 
Style Council, The Christians and Level 42.  His 
credits as a television documentary director 
include work with guitarists Robert Fripp and 
Andy Summers, and actor Steven Berkoff.

Softley is a graduate of Queen's College in 
Cambridge, England, where he also directed a 
number of highly-praised theatrical productions.


MICHAEL PEYSER (Producer) most recently 
produced three very different comedies under 
the banner of his company, Mike's Movies: 
"Camp Nowhere," Jonathan Lynn's "The 
Distinguished Gentleman," starring Eddie 
Murphy, and "The Night We Never Met," 
starring Matthew Broderick.  He is currently 
producing "Matilda," directed by and starring 
Danny DeVito.

His other producing credits include the comedy 
hits "Ruthless People," starring Bette Midler and 
Danny DeVito, and "Big Business," starring Midler
and Lily Tomlin.  He also served as the executive 
producer on the offbeat comedy "Desperately 
Seeking Susan" and the suspense thriller "F/X."  In addition, Peyser was one of the founding partners 
of Hollywood Pictures, where he handled all 
phases of creative development and production.

Hailing from New York, Peyser began his career 
doing production jobs on Milos Forman's "Hair" 
and John Schlesinger's "Marathon Man."  He was 
then production manager and associate producer 
for Woody Allen on the director's films 
"Manhattan," "Stardust Memories," "The Purple 
Rose of Cairo," "Broadway Danny Rose," "Zelig" 
and "A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy."  During 
this period, he also worked as executive in 
charge of production on the hit comedy 
"Arthur," starring Dudley Moore and Liza 
Minnelli.


RALPH WINTER (Producer) has enjoyed a 
successful and varied producing career 
in the film industry.

He has worked on several of the extremely 
popular Star Trek feature films, serving as 
a producer on "Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered 
Country," which earned multiple Academy 
Award nominations.  He also executive 
produced "Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home" 
and "Star Trek V: The Final Frontier," and 
was associate producer on "Star Trek III: 
The Search for Spock."

He most recently produced the science fiction 
thriller "The Puppetmasters," starring Donald 
Sutherland.  In addition, Winter was the executive 
producer on the recent comedies "Hocus Pocus" 
and "Captain Ron."  He also independently 
produced the film "The Perfect Weapon" and 
was co-executive producer of the Vietnam 
War action drama "Flight of the Intruder."

Winter began his career in 1981 as the director of 
post-production of Paramount Television.  He later 
became executive in charge of production for 
Harve Bennett Productions, where he oversaw 
the acclaimed longform television projects 
"A Woman Called Golda" and "The Jesse 
Owens Story."


JANET GRAHAM (Co-Producer) most recently 
served as the co-producer of the comedy 
"Camp Nowhere," starring Christopher Lloyd.  
She had previously worked as the associate 
producer on Jim Abrahams' hit comedy "Hot 
Shots!," starring Charlie Sheen.

Graham is a graduate of the prestigious Peter 
StarkMotion Picture Producing Program at the 
University of Southern California.  Later, she 
earned the post of vice president for producer 
Michael Peyser's development company, Mike's 
Movies.  Their first film collaboration was 
"The Night We Never Met," on which Graham 
was the associate producer.
