RAFAEL MOREU (Screenwriter) counts "HACKERS" 
as his first feature film script.

Of Cuban-American descent, Moreu was born in 
Miami and attended New York University, where 
he studied at the Circle in the Square Theatre 
School. He later worked as a script reader and 
story analyst for Fine Line, Miramax, and New 
Line, where he discovered the script, "Hangin' 
With the Homeboys."  He went on to serve as 
director of development for Robert Halmi's 
company, RHI, where he developed six 
telefilms.  During his tenure there, he was 
primarily involved in adaptingoutstanding 
stage plays for television audiences, 
including Marsha Norman's "Getting Out" and 
Michael Weller's "Spoils of War."


Moreu is also a founding member of the Seraphim 
Theatre Company in New York, which is dedicated 
to developing new playwrights.


ANDRZEJ SEKULA (Director of Photography) was 
the cinematographer on Quentin Tarantino's 
award-winning hit "Pulp Fiction" and had 
previously collaborated with the director on his 
acclaimed drama "Reservoir Dogs."  He more 
recently reunited with Tarantino to shoot his 
segment of the much anticipated film 
"Four Rooms."

Among his other film credits are the HBO film 
"Body Language," for director George Case, 
"Oleanna," directed by David Mamet, "Sleep 
With Me," "Bank Robber," "Across the Moon" 
and "Three of Hearts."

Sekula was born in Poland, where he began his
career as a cinematographer on documentaries.  
In 1980, he moved to London, where he was 
accepted to the National Film and Television 
School.  By the mid-1980s, he found himself in 
demand on commercials, music videos, short 
films and documentary features.


JOHN BEARD (Production Designer) has created 
the atmosphere for several highly-praised and 
diverse features.

He includes among his previous film credits 
Vincent Ward's "Map of the Human Heart," 
Robert Young's "Splitting Heirs," Mike Figgis' 
"The Browning Version," Terry Gilliam's "Erik 
the Viking," Martin Scorsese's controversial 
"The Last Temptation of Christ," Mary 
Lambert's "Siesta" and Julien Temple's
"Absolute Beginners."

Beard earned a degree in interior design from 
the Kingston College of Art London, and began 
his career as an assistant to production 
designer Brian Eatwell.  He went on to become 
the art director on Terry Gilliam's "Brazil" and 
on Nicolas Roeg's films "Eureka" and 
"Bad Timing."


MARTIN WALSH (Editor) previously teamed with 
director Iain Softley on "Backbeat."  He edited 
Peter Medak's acclaimed feature "The Krays," 
which won the London Standard Award for Best 
British Film, and includes among his additional 
film credits "Hear My Song," "Funny Bones," 
"Bad Behaviour," "Wild West," "The Fifteen 
Streets," "Courage Mountain" and "The Wolves 
of Willoughby Chase." He is currently at work 
on "Feeling Minnesota," starring Keanu Reeves, 
which is due out in 1996.

Walsh has also edited a number of distinguished 
television documentaries, including "Oil," "A 
Rough Stage" and "Africa," which was honored 
with an Emmy Award.


CHRISTOPHER BLUNDEN (Editor) has edited 
several projects for both film and British 
television.  He most recently worked on "Bare Necessities" for Granada Television.

Among his earlier credits are "The Good King," 
"Moving Story," "Head Over Heels," "Carry On 
Columbus," "Life After Life," "The Never Ending 
Story II: The Next Chapter," "Wilt," "The 
Adventures of Baron Munchausen" and "Amazing 
Grace and Chuck."

In addition, he served as visual effects editor on
the fantasy action adventure "Highlander."


ROGER BURTON (Costume Designer) is 
considered the consummate authority on 
"street" fashions of the last half century, 
and has amassed an extraordinary 
accumulation of over 10,000 period 
clothes, dating back to the 1930s.

He began his collection in 1969 in his hometown 
of Leicester, England.  Three years later, he 
opened a specialty antique shop, before 
relocating to London to start a wholesale 
business for supplying fashion shops around 
with world with vintage clothes and 
accessories.  In 1978, he formed Contemporary 
Wardrobe, which continues to supply the 
international film, television, advertising and 
music industries.

His previous film experience includes 
"Quadrophenia," on which he served as the 
costume consultant for the early-1960s 
period.  He worked in the same capacity on 
"Absolute Beginners," which dramatizes the 
emergence of London's teenagers in the late 
950s.  He also lent his vast knowledge of 
recent period clothes to such films as 
"Birth of the Beatles," "Chariots of Fire," 
"Sid and Nancy" and "Little Shop of Horrors."

Burton has also worked on countless music 
videos, dressing such musical artists as The 
Rolling Stones, David Bowie, Annie Lennox 
and many more.

His clothing archive now forms the basis of a 
permanent exhibition in a gallery space called 
The Chamber of Pop Culture, located in the same 
building as Contemporary Wardrobe.  Burton is 
also working on a book profiling street fashions 
of the last 50 years.


SIMON BOSWELL (Composer) is an award-
winning film composer, in addition to writing 
and producing music for a variety of artists.  
He most recently composed the score for United 
Artists' supernatural horror thriller "Lord 
of Illusions," directed by Clive Barker.

Boswell was honored with a Critics Prize from 
the Cannes Film Festival for his score in Isaac 
Julien's "Young Soul Rebels" and earned a 
nomination from the British Film Institute 
for Best International Score for his work on 
Richard Stanley's "Hardware." In addition, he 
composed the song Second Coming for Neil 
Jordan's Academy Award-winning hit "The 
Crying Game."

His additional film credits include "Santa 
Sangre," "Second Best," "Jack & Sarah," "Shallow 
Grave," "Dust Devil," "The Turn of the Screw" 
and "Aquarius."

In addition to performing and recording his own 
music, Boswell has written and produced material 
for an eclectic assortment of musical artists, 
including Daisy Chain, 23 Skidoo, Pierce Turner, 
Nik Kershaw, Amii Stewart, Live Wire, Mark 
Andrews and The Crooks.  He is also a regular 
contributor to Sight and Sound Magazine.
